Revise the modules document for clarity (#90237)
llvm/llvm-project: clang/docs/StandardCPlusPlusModules.rst

"Named Modules" or "Header Units". This document covers both forms.

Standard C++ Named modules
==========================

In order to understand compiler behavior, it is helpful to introduce some
terms and definitions for readers who are not familiar with the C++ feature.
This document is not a tutorial on C++; it only introduces necessary concepts
to better understand use of modules in a project.

Background and terminology
--------------------------

Module and module unit
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A module consists of one or more module units. A module unit is a special kind
of translation unit. Every module unit must have a module declaration. The
syntax of the module declaration is:

.. code-block:: c++

  [export] module module_name[:partition_name];

Terms enclosed in ``[]`` are optional. ``module_name`` and ``partition_name``
are typical C++ identifiers, except that they may contain a period (``.``).
Note that a ``.`` in the name has no semantic meaning (e.g. implying a
hierarchy or referring to the file system).

In this document, module units are classified as:

* Primary module interface unit
* Module implementation unit
* Module partition interface unit

> * Module partition implementation unit

Author: Okay, I've reverted back to the old form.

``export module module_name;`` where ``module_name`` denotes the name of the
module. A module should have one and only one primary module interface unit.

A module implementation unit is a module unit whose module declaration is
``module module_name;``. Multiple module implementation units can be declared
in the same translation unit.

A module partition interface unit is a module unit whose module declaration is
``export module module_name:partition_name;``. The ``partition_name`` should be
unique within any given module.

An module partition implementation unit is a module unit whose module
declaration is ``module module_name:partition_name;``. The ``partition_name``
should be unique within any given module.

In this document, we use the following umbrella terms:

* A ``module interface unit`` refers to either a ``primary module interface unit``
  or a ``module partition interface unit``.

* An ``importable module unit`` refers to either a ``module interface unit`` or
  an ``module partition implementation unit``.

* A ``module partition unit`` refers to either a ``module partition interface unit``
  or an ``module partition implementation unit``.

> Binary Module Interface

Author: I don't understand the distinction between Binary Module Interface and Built Module Interface file -- from a user perspective, they're saying the same thing: it's a non-textual (binary) representation of a module interface.

> Binary Module Interface

Reviewer: Maybe it is slightly `pedantic`. The term `Binary Module Interface` may make people wondering this is similar with `ABI`, which is a binary representation and an interface. But now the BMI is not like ABI since the compiler can't consume the BMI from different compilers even if they are from different versions.

But maybe this is not a big deal really.

Introduction
============

The term ``modules`` has a lot of meanings. For Clang users, modules may refer
to ``Objective-C Modules``, `Clang Modules <Modules.html>`_ (also called

> ``Clang Header Modules``, etc.) or ``C++20 Modules`` (or

Reviewer 2: Etc?

``Standard C++ Modules``). The implementation of all these kinds of modules in
Clang shares a lot of code, but from the perspective of users, their semantics
and command line interfaces are very different. This document focuses on an
introduction of focusing on the use of C++20 modules in Clang. In the remainder
of this document, the term ``modules`` will refer to Standard C++20 modules and
the term ``Clang modules`` will refer to the Clang modules extension.

Modules exist in two forms in the C++ Standard. They can refer to either
"Named Modules" or "Header Units". This document covers both forms.

Standard C++ Named modules
==========================

In order to understand compiler behavior, it is helpful to introduce some
language background here for readers who are not familiar with the C++ feature.
This document is not a tutorial on C++; it only introduces necessary concepts
to better understand use of modules for a project.

Background and terminology
--------------------------

Module and module unit
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A module consists of one or more module units. A module unit is a special kind

> of translation unit. Every module unit must have a module declaration. The

Author: I changed it to "A module unit should almost always start with a module declaration." as that seems sufficiently hand-wavy.

explicitly. See https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/issues/62707 for details.

When compiling a ``module implementation unit``, the BMI of the corresponding
``primary module interface unit`` must be specified. This is because a module
implementation unit implicitly imports the primary module interface unit.

  [module.unit]p8

  A module-declaration that contains neither an export-keyword nor a module-partition implicitly
  imports the primary module interface unit of the module as if by a module-import-declaration.

The ``-fprebuilt-module-path=<path/to/directory>``, ``-fmodule-file=<path/to/BMI>``, 
and ``-fmodule-file=<module-name>=<path/to/BMI>`` options may be specified
multiple times. For example, the command line to compile ``M.cppm`` in
the previous example could be rewritten as:

.. code-block:: console

  $ clang++ -std=c++20 M.cppm --precompile -fmodule-file=M:interface_part=M-interface_part.pcm -fmodule-file=M:impl_part=M-impl_part.pcm -o M.pcm

When there are multiple ``-fmodule-file=<module-name>=`` options for the same
``<module-name>``, the last ``-fmodule-file=<module-name>=`` overrides the
previous ``-fmodule-file=<module-name>=`` option.

> ``-fprebuilt-module-path`` is more convenient while ``-fmodule-file`` is faster

Author: I've removed it.

                mod1.cppm -> clang++ mod1.cppm ... -> mod1.pcm --,--> clang++ mod1.pcm ... -> mod1.o -+
                src2.cpp ----------------------------------------+> clang++ src2.cpp -------> src2.o -'

As the diagrams show, we need to compile the BMI from module units to object
files and then link the object files. (However, we can't do this for the BMI
from header units. See the section on :ref:`header units <header-units>` for
more details.

BMIs cannot be shipped in an archive to create a module library. Instead, the
BMIs(``*.pcm``) are compiled into object files(``*.o``) and those object files
are added to the archive instead.

Consistency Requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If modules are thought of as a kind of cache to speed up compilation, then, as

Reviewer 3: Modules are effectively a cache used to speed up compilation.  Thus, like other caching techniques, it is important to maintain cache conistency.  Therefore, Clang does very strictly checking for consistency.

Author: I went with:

Modules can be viewed as a kind of cache to speed up compilation. Thus, like
other caching techniques, it is important to maintain cache consistency which
is why Clang does very strict checking for consistency.

with other caching techniques, it is important to keep cache consistency.

> **Currently**, Clang does very strict checking for consistency.

Reviewer 2: The "currently" is not useful here

Options consistency
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Language dialect compiler options for module units and their non-module-unit

Author: How about I go with "Compiler options related to the language dialect for a module unit and its non-module-unit uses need to be consistent."?

The problem is "language option" isn't sufficient, right? e.g., enabling `-fopenmp` in one place and not in the other would be just as much of a problem as setting `-std=c++20` in one place and not in the other.

  # Inconsistent debugging level.
  $ clang++ -std=c++20 -g Use.cpp -fprebuilt-module-path=.

Although the optimization and debugging levels are inconsistent, these
compilations are accepted because the compiler options do not impact the
language dialect.

Note that the compiler **currently** doesn't reject inconsistent macro
definitions (this may change in the future). For example:

.. code-block:: console

  $ clang++ -std=c++20 M.cppm --precompile -o M.pcm
  # Inconsistent optimization level.
  $ clang++ -std=c++20 -O3 -DNDEBUG Use.cpp -fprebuilt-module-path=.

Currently, Clang accepts the above example though it may produce surprising
results if the debugging code depends on consistent use of ``NDEBUG`` in other
translation units.

Object definition consistency
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The C++ language requires that the same declarations in different translation

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The C++ language requires that the declarations of the same entity in different translation
```

units have the same definition, which is known as the One Definition Rule (ODR).

> Prior to modules, the compiler cannot perform strong ODR violation checking

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Without modules, the compiler cannot perform strong ODR violation checking
```

> because it only sees one translation unit at a time. With use of modules, the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
because it only sees one translation unit at a time. With the use of modules, the
```

compiler can perform checks for ODR violations across translation units.

However, the current ODR checking mechanisms are not perfect. There are a
significant number of false positive ODR violation diagnostics, where the
compiler incorrectly diagnoses two identical declarations as having different
definitions. Further, true positive ODR violations are not always reported.
Additionally, MSVC does not currently perform ODR checking for declarations in
the global module fragment.

> 

Reviewer 2: Why are we talking about msvc? The mention below is sufficient

To give a better user experience, improve compilation performance, and for
consistentency with MSVC, ODR checking of declarations in the global module
fragment is disabled by default. These checks can be enabled by specifying
``-Xclang -fno-skip-odr-check-in-gmf`` when compiling. If the check is enabled
and you encounter incorrect or missing diagnostics, please report them via the
`community issue tracker <https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/issues/>`_.

ABI Impacts
-----------

This section describes the new ABI changes brought by modules. Only Itanium C++

> ABI related change are mentioned.

Reviewer 4: "Only changes to Itanium C++ ABI are covered."

> ABI related change are mentioned.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ABI related changes are mentioned.
```

Module Initializers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> All importable module units are required to emit an initializer function. The

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All importable module units are required to emit an initializer function to handle <what?>. The
```

ARE they required, or only if there is some sort of static initialization happening in the module?

initializer function emits calls to imported modules first followed by calls

> to all to dynamic initializers in the current module unit.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
to all of the dynamic initializers in the current module unit.
```

Translation units that explicitly or implicitly import a named module must call
the initializer functions of the imported named module within the sequence of
the dynamic initializers in the translation unit. Initializations of entities
at namespace scope are appearance-ordered. This (recursively) extends to

> imported modules at the point of appearance of the import declaration.

Reviewer 3: Do we want to clarify that in the case of template instantiations (such as a variable template with an initializer) that this 'order of appearance' isn't quite true anymore?

If the imported module is known to be empty, the call to its initializer may be
omitted. Additionally, if the imported module is known to have already been
imported, the call to its initializer may be omitted.

Reduced BMI
-----------

To support the two-phase compilation model, Clang puts everything needed to
produce an object into the BMI. However, other consumers of the BMI generally

> don't need that informations. This makes the BMI larger and may introduce

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
don't need that information. This makes the BMI larger and may introduce
```

> unnecessary dependencies for the BMI. To mitigate the problem, Clang added a

Reviewer 2: added is weird. It should be more declarative/present tense.

Offers/has

compiler option to reduce the information contained in the BMI. These two
formats are known as Full BMI and Reduced BMI, respectively.

Users can use the ``-fexperimental-modules-reduced-bmi`` option to produce a

> Reduced BMI.

Reviewer 2: We should find a better name in a subsequent pr

                                               -> ...
                                               -> consumer_n.cpp

Clang does not emit diagnostics when ``-fexperimental-modules-reduced-bmi`` is

> used with a non-module unit. This design helps the end users of the one-phase

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
used with a non-module unit. This design permits users of the one-phase
```

> compilation model to perform experiments without needing to modify the build

Reviewer 2: Perform experiments?

system. The two-phase compilation module requires build system support.

In a Reduced BMI, Clang does not emit unreachable entities from the global
module fragment, or definitions of non-inline functions and non-inline
variables. This may not be a transparent change.

> [module.global.frag]ex2 provides a good example:

Reviewer 2: The specific c++ standard reference isn't useful. Just "consider the following example"

                                  // module M's interface, so is discarded
  int c = use_h<int>();           // OK

In the above example, the function definition of ``N::g`` is elided from the
Reduced BMI of ``M.cppm``. Then the use of ``use_g<int>`` in ``M-impl.cpp``
fails to instantiate. For such issues, users can add references to ``N::g`` in

> the module purview of ``M.cppm`` to ensure it is reachable, e.g.,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
the module purview of ``M.cppm`` to ensure it is reachable, e.g.
```

> the module purview of ``M.cppm`` to ensure it is reachable, e.g.,

Reviewer 3: what is 'module purview' here?  Do we just mean "in the `M` module"?

``using N::g;``.

> Long-term, Clang is likely to make Reduced BMIs the default rather than Full

Reviewer 2: Support for reduced BMI is still experimental but it might become the default in the future.

> BMIs. But because it is a drastic change, it is initially an experimental

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
BMIs. Since it would be a drastic change of user interface, it is initially an experimental
```

option to avoid breaking existing users. The expected roadmap for Reduced BMIs
as of Clang 19.x is:

1. ``-fexperimental-modules-reduced-bmi`` is opt-in for 1~2 releases. The period depends
   on user feedback and may be extended.
2. Announce that Reduced BMIs are no longer experimental and introduce
   ``-fmodules-reduced-bmi`` as a new option, and recommend use of the new
   option. This transition is expected to take 1~2 additional releases as well.
3. Finally, ``-fmodules-reduced-bmi`` will be the default. When that time

>    comes, the term BMI will refer to the reduced BMI and the Full BMI will only

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   comes, the term BMI will refer to the Reduced BMI and the Full BMI will only
```

   be meaningful to build systems which elect to support two-phase compilation.

Performance Tips
----------------

Reduce duplications
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

While it is valid to have duplicated declarations in the global module fragments
of different module units, it is not free for Clang to deal with the duplicated
declarations. A translation unit will compile more slowly if it and its

> imported module units contain a lot of duplicated declarations. For example:

Reviewer 4: "A translation unit will compile more slowly if there is a lot of duplicated declarations between the translation unit and modules it imports."

  import M;
  ... // use declarations from module M.

Reducing the duplication from textual includes is what improves compile-time
performance.

Transitioning to modules
------------------------

> New code and libraries should use modules from the start if possible. However,

Author: I reworded slightly to "It is best for new code and libraries to use modules from the start if possible." -- do you think that's an improvement?

> New code and libraries should use modules from the start if possible. However,

Reviewer: Yeah, I think so.

> New code and libraries should use modules from day one if possible. However,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
New code and libraries should use modules from day 1 if possible. However,
```

> it may be a breaking change for existing code or libraries to refactor to use

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
it may be a breaking change for existing code or libraries to switch to
```

> modules. As a result, many existing libraries need to provide headers and module

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
modules. As a result, many existing libraries need to provide both headers and module
```

interfaces for a while to not break existing users.

> This section provides some ideas on how to ease the transition process for

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This section suggests some ideas on how to ease the transition process for
```

> This section provides some ideas on how to ease the transition process for

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This section provides some suggestions on how to ease the transition process for
```

> existing libraries. **Note that this information is only intended as helpful

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
existing libraries. **Note that this information is only intended as guidance, rather than as requirements to use modules in Clang.
```

    using decl_n;
  }

This example shows how to include all the headers containing declarations which

> need to be exported and uses `using` declarations in an `export` block to

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
need to be exported, and uses `using` declarations in an `export` block to
```

> produce the module interface. Then, basically, we're done.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
produce the module interface.
```

> produce the module interface. Then, basically, we're done.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
produce the module interface. 
```

  }
  #endif

(And add `EXPORT` and conditional include to the headers as suggested in the
export extern-C++ style section.)

> The ABI with modules is different and so we need to compile the source files

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The ABI with modules is different and thus we need to compile the source files
```

  }
  #endif

If the number of source files is small, everything can be put in the private

> module fragment directly. (It is recommended to add conditional includes to the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
module fragment directly (It is recommended to add conditional includes to the
```

> source files too). However, compile time performance will be slow if there are

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
source files too). However, compile time performance will be bad if there is
```

> source files too). However, compile time performance will be slow if there are

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
source files as well). However, compile time performance will be slow if there are
```

  // Following off should be unchanged.
  ...

The module implementation unit will import the primary module implicitly. Do

> not include any headers in the module implementation units because that avoids

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
not include any headers in the module implementation units as it avoids
```

duplicated declarations between translation units. This is why non-exported

> using declarations are added from third-party libraries in the primary module

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
using declarations should be added from third-party libraries in the primary module
```

interface unit.

If the library is provided as ``libyour_library.so``, a modular library (e.g.,
``libyour_library_modules.so``) may also need to be provided for ABI
compatibility.

What if there are headers only inclued by the source files
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The above practice may be problematic if there are headers only included by the

> source files. If using a private module fragment, this issue may be solved by

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
source files. When using a private module fragment, this issue may be solved by
```

including those headers in the private module fragment. While it is OK to solve
it by including the implementation headers in the module purview when using
implementation module units, it may be suboptimal because the primary module
interface units now contain entities that do not belong to the interface.

This can potentially be improved by introducing module partition implementation
unit. The module partition implementation unit is an importable module unit
which is internal to the module itself. However, this approach may not always

> be the best way forward.

Author: Ah, I read the original wording wrong, I'll drop this sentence entirely.

  ...
  #endif

If the modules imported by the library provide such headers, remember to add
them to ``your_library_imported.h`` too.

Importing modules
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When there are dependent libraries providing modules, they should be imported
in your module as well. Many existing libraries will fall into this catagory
once the ``std`` module is more widely available.

All dependent libraries providing modules
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Life gets easier if all the dependent libraries provide modules.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Of course, most of the complexity disappears if all the dependent libraries provide modules.
```

  #include "source_n.cpp"
  #endif

> Non-exported using declarations are not needed if using implementation module

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Non-exported ``using`` declarations are not needed if using implementation module
```

> Non-exported using declarations are not needed if using implementation module

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Non-exported using declarations are unnecessary if using implementation module
```

units. Instead, third-party modules can be imported directly in implementation
module units.

Partial dependent libraries providing modules
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If the library has to mix the use of ``include`` and ``import`` in its module,

> the key point is still to remove duplicated declarations in translation units

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the primary goal is still the removal of duplicated declarations in translation units
```

as much as possible. If the imported modules provide headers to skip parsing
their headers, those should be included after the import. If the imported
modules don't provide such a header, one can be made manually for improved
compile time performance.

Known Problems
--------------

The following describes issues in the current implementation of modules. Please
see

> `the issues list for moduled <https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/labels/clang%3Amodules>`_

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`the issues list for modules <https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/labels/clang%3Amodules>`_
```

Both of the above examples should be accepted.

> This is a limitation in the implementation. In the first example, the compiler

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This is a limitation of the implementation. In the first example, the compiler
```

will see and parse ``<iostream>`` first then it will see the ``import``. In
this case, ODR checking and declaration merging will happen in the
deserializer. In the second example, the compiler will see the ``import`` first
and the ``#include`` second which results in ODR checking and declarations
merging happening in the semantic analyzer. This is due to a divergence in the
implementation path. This is tracked by
`#61465 <https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/issues/61465>`_.

> Ignored ``prefered_name`` Attribute

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Ignored ``preferred_name`` Attribute
```

  IMPORT header_name
  EXPORT ...

> With the idea being that this file can be compiled like a module unit or a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The intent of this is that this file can be compiled like a module unit or a
```

> non-module unit depending on the definition of some macros. However, this kind

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
non-module unit depending on the definition of some macros. However, this
```

> of usage is forbidden by P1857R3 which is not yet implemented in Clang. This

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
usage is forbidden by P1857R3 which is not yet implemented in Clang. This
```

> means that is possible to write invalid modules which no longer be accepted

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
means that is possible to write invalid modules which will no longer be accepted
```

  export module repro;
  export import :part;

Currently the compiler incorrectly diagnoses the inconsistent definition of
``fun()`` in two module units. Because both definitions of ``fun()`` have the

> same spelling and ``T`` refers to the same type entity, so there is no ODR

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
same spelling and ``T`` refers to the same type entity, there is no ODR
```

> same spelling and ``T`` refers to the same type entity, so there is no ODR

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
same spelling and ``T`` refers to the same type entity, there is no ODR
```

violation. This is tracked by
`#78850 <https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/issues/78850>`_.

Using TU-local entity in other units
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Module units are translation units, so the entities which should be local to
the module unit itself should never be used by other units.

The C++ standard defines the concept of ``TU-local`` and ``exposure`` in
`basic.link/p14 <https://eel.is/c++draft/basic.link#14>`_,
`basic.link/p15 <https://eel.is/c++draft/basic.link#15>`_,
`basic.link/p16 <https://eel.is/c++draft/basic.link#16>`_,
`basic.link/p17 <https://eel.is/c++draft/basic.link#17>`_, and
`basic.link/p18 <https://eel.is/c++draft/basic.link#18>`_.

> However, Clang doesn't formally support these two ideas. This results in

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
However, Clang doesn't formally support these two concepts. This results in
```

> unclear or confusing diagnostic messages. Further, Clang may import TU-local

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
unclear or confusing diagnostic messages. Further, Clang may import ``TU-local``
```

How to specify the dependent BMIs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``-fmodule-file`` can be used to specify a dependent BMI (or multiple times for
more than one dependent BMI).

With the existing implementation, ``-fprebuilt-module-path`` cannot be used for
header units (because they are nominally anonymous). For header units, use 
``-fmodule-file`` to include the relevant PCM file for each header unit.

This is expect to be solved in a future version of Clang either by the compiler
finding and specifying ``-fmodule-file`` automatically, or by the use of a
module-mapper that understands how to map the header name to their PCMs.

Don't compile the BMI
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Because of the semantics of header units, which are just like headers, another

Reviewer 3: Oh my...
```suggestion
With modules, we cannot compile the BMI from a header unit due to the semantics of header units.
```

  $ clang++ -std=c++20 -xc++-system-header --precompile iostream -o iostream.pcm
  $ clang++ -std=c++20 -fmodule-file=iostream.pcm --precompile M.cppm -o M.cpp

In the latter example, Clang can find the BMI for ``<iostream>`` and so it
tries to replace the ``#include <iostream>`` with ``import <iostream>;``
automatically.

Relationships between Clang modules
-----------------------------------

Header units have similar semantics to Clang modules. The semantics of both are

> like headers. In fact, header units can be mimicked by Clang modules as in the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
like headers. Therefore, header units can be mimicked by Clang modules as in the
```

Reviewer 3: Do we really mean 'Clang Modules' here?  I thought we were referring to C++ Standards Modules throughout here?

Author: I think we do mean Clang modules here, this is in a section about the relationship between C++ modules and Clang modules.

  $ clang++ -std=c++20 -fimplicit-modules -fmodule-map-file=.modulemap main.cpp

It is simpler when using libc++:

.. code-block:: console

  $ clang++ -std=c++20 main.cpp -fimplicit-modules -fimplicit-module-maps

because libc++ already supplies a
`module map <https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/blob/main/libcxx/include/module.modulemap.in>`_.

This raises the question: why are header units not implemented through Clang
modules?

> The main reason is because Clang modules have more hierarchical semantics when

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is primarily because Clang modules have more hierarchical semantics when
```

wrapping multiple headers together as one module, which is not supported by
Standard C++ Header units. We want to avoid the impression that these
additional semantics get interpreted as Standard C++ behavior.

Another reason is that there are proposals to introduce module mappers to the
C++ standard (for example, https://wg21.link/p1184r2). Reusing Clang's

> modulemap may be more difficult if we need to introduce another module mapper.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
``modulemap`` may be more difficult if we need to introduce another module mapper.
```

Discover Dependencies
=====================

Prior to modules, all the translation units in a project can be compiled in
parallel. The same is not true when using module units. The presence of module
units requires compiling the translation units in a topological order.

The ``clang-scan-deps`` scanner implemented

> `P1689 paper <https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2022/p1689r5.html>`_

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`P1689 <https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2022/p1689r5.html>`_
```

How modules speed up compilation
--------------------------------

A classic theory for the reason why modules speed up the compilation is: if
there are ``n`` headers and ``m`` source files and each header is included by

> each source file, then the complexity of the compilation is ``O(n*m)``. But if

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
each source file, then the complexity of the compilation is ``O(n*m)``. However if
```

there are ``n`` module interfaces and ``m`` source files, the complexity of the

> compilation is ``O(n+m)``. So, using modules would be a big win when scaling.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
compilation is ``O(n+m)``. So, using modules would be a significant improvement at scale.
```

> In a simpler word, we could get rid of many redundant compilations by using

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
More simply, modules causes much of the redundant compilations to no longer be necessary.
```

by the imported module units. In other words, the imported code would be
processed again and again in importee units by optimizations (including IPO
itself). The optimizations before IPO and IPO itself are the most time-consuming
part in whole compilation process. So from this perspective, it might not be
possible to get the compile time improvements described, but there could be
time savings for optimizations after IPO and the whole backend.

Overall, at ``-O0`` the implementations of functions defined in a module will
not impact module users, but at higher optimization levels the definitions of
such functions are provided to user compilations for the purposes of
optimization (but definitions of these functions are still not included in the
use's object file). This means the build speedup at higher optimization levels
may be lower than expected given ``-O0`` experience, but does provide more
optimization opportunities.

Interoperability with Clang Modules
-----------------------------------

We **wish** to support Clang modules and standard C++ modules at the same time,
but the mixing them together is not well used/tested yet. Please file new

> github issues as you find interoperability problems.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
GitHub issues as you find interoperability problems.
```

Author: Good catch! Done.

              │        │
              └--------┘

In this case, the source file (which could be a non-module unit or a module

> unit) would get processed by the whole pipeline. But the imported code would

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
unit) would get processed by the entire pipeline. However, the imported code would
```

> only get involved in semantic analysis, which is mainly about name lookup,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
only get involved in semantic analysis, which, for the most part, is name lookup,
```

                │                                       │
                └---------------------------------------┘

It would be very unfortunate if we end up with worse performance when using
modules. The main concern is that when a source file is compiled, the compiler
needs to see the body of imported module units so that it can perform IPO

> (InterProcedural Optimization, primarily inlining in practice) to optimize

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
(Interprocedural Optimization, primarily inlining in practice) to optimize
```

functions in the current source file with the help of the information provided
by the imported module units. In other words, the imported code would be
processed again and again in importee units by optimizations (including IPO
itself). The optimizations before IPO and IPO itself are the most time-consuming
part in whole compilation process. So from this perspective, it might not be

> possible to get the compile time improvements described in the theory, but

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
possible to get the compile time improvements described, but
```

there could be time savings for optimizations after IPO and the whole backend.

Overall, at ``-O0`` the implementations of functions defined in a module will
not impact module users, but at higher optimization levels the definitions of
such functions are provided to user compilations for the purposes of
optimization (but definitions of these functions are still not included in the

> use's object file) -- this means the build speedup at higher optimization

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
use's object file). This means the build speedup at higher optimization
```
